i have a new project id like to start.  its a mobile app.  For lack of a better name, its Bible Social Media.  Let me explain.  The app will mimic facebook.  There is a news feed, fake ads, 'friends' you can add.  Users will not be able to post, and they wont have a 'wall' for themselves.  But they will be able to like and heart.  most importantly read and scroll.  This app is an attempt to replace real social media, but with wholesome content.  The content is the key, so let me explain that.  We will start at day one of the Bible.  And we will go completely chronologically until the very end.  we need to map out every single person that has been mentioned in the bible, give them a 'profile' and have them 'post' real happenings chronologically as they did or experienced.  We can truncate the entire biblical timeframe into maybe 1 year (real time).  that is open for ideas on how we feed it to the users.  I'd like it to be a 'shared' world, so new people who install the app would be on the same synced day as everyone else.  And we should show the biblical day at the top somehow.  Users will be able to 'add new friends' which would effectively 'tune in' to their feed so they see their posts on the news feed.  we should also use an 'algorithm' so that if users view, like, heart a character, they would see more of that character's posts.  Characters should post at random times, maybe once a day, once every two days, whatever.  I think different characters would have different social media habits.  The tone should be 'modern day', but all of the stuff they post should be straight from the bible, but 'modernized' language.  also, we should take into account the age of the character and their posts.  so younger characters might use emojis alot, and speak similar to how they would today, while older ones maybe not.  also, another idea would be, when characters post, we should have other characters who are friends with that character reply to their posts, so exchanges could be read by our users in a conversational way.  as new characters are introduced chronologically in the bible, they might show up as 'people you may know' and be a 'friend suggestion' for our users to add them.. Occasionally, we can have characters send 'friend requests' to our users also.  Users should also be able to view a character's profile, and look at their 'friends' and send those characters friend requests.  



this would be a great and unique way to experience the bible and also could be a cure for social media scrolling addiction.  Oh, about the fake ads.  So it would be cool to establish 3 or 4 'news outlets' and have them put out reports on larger biblical happenings.  And it would be cool for characters to 'comment' on the posts too to give their opinions. maybe add a little drama there too.

so, ideally, we would keep this 100% all biblical, but i understand that not everything is actually in the bible, so we should be able to take some creative liberties to keep it interesting.  I want to keep it 'period', lets keep the world true to the times.  i don't want to embellish large happenings or things, but we can perhaps 'fill in missing pieces' as long as those story threads would lead to lining up to true biblical happenings.

character 'friends' could be true to real biblical relationships and contact.

if characters die in the bible, we can do things like one of their friends or family posts 'Able died today...' and have friends and family comment on posts, grieving their condolances.  the dead character's profile page could show people's posts 'we miss you' 'gone too soon' that kind of thing.  We can have fun with it.  we should keep track of comments too, like on facebook.  The UI mechanics should mimc facebook as close as possible.  users will be able to click on a post to read the comments, etc.

I think we should start with building out a CSV file of all the characters ever mentioned in the bible along with profile information.  mimic facebook.  Once we get all the 'true' biblical characters made, we can inject a bunch of 'fake' people and their profiles.  All these would be inner mingled together to create the 'world'

posts would be like today, what people ate, where they went, what they did for fun, how work was that day, what they wore, what they bought, child raising questions, love connections, the pet they got, also sprinkling in straight up biblical happenings, 'saw jesus preach today.. omg'.  

i think it would be super important to do all this chronologically so that the user can take part in the amazing journey.  i realize that would pose an issue as late adopters of the app might join in much much later in the story, but i feel after the full story is complete, it could simply start over for new users of the app.

im thinking we would need to build a database, to store all of these posts instead of baking them all into the application.  This way, i could change things through the year.  the new posts could actually come from the dbase and 'push' to the application.  I think it would even be cool for users to get push notifications (if they opted into that).  



